### 2.2.1 Core Container

The[_Core Container_](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M4/spring-framework-reference/htmlsingle/#beans-introduction)consists of the`spring-core`,`spring-beans`,`spring-context`,`spring-context-support`, and`spring-expression`\(Spring Expression Language\) modules.

The`spring-core`and`spring-beans`modules[provide the fundamental parts of the framework](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M4/spring-framework-reference/htmlsingle/#beans-introduction), including the IoC and Dependency Injection features. The`BeanFactory`is a sophisticated implementation of the factory pattern. It removes the need for programmatic singletons and allows you to decouple the configuration and specification of dependencies from your actual program logic.

The[_Context_](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M4/spring-framework-reference/htmlsingle/#context-introduction)\(`spring-context`\) module builds on the solid base provided by the[_Core and Beans_](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M4/spring-framework-reference/htmlsingle/#beans-introduction)modules: it is a means to access objects in a framework-style manner that is similar to a JNDI registry. The Context module inherits its features from the Beans module and adds support for internationalization \(using, for example, resource bundles\), event propagation, resource loading, and the transparent creation of contexts by, for example, a Servlet container. The Context module also supports Java EE features such as EJB, JMX, and basic remoting. The`ApplicationContext`interface is the focal point of the Context module.`spring-context-support`provides support for integrating common third-party libraries into a Spring application context, in particular for caching \(EhCache, JCache\) and scheduling \(CommonJ, Quartz\).

The`spring-expression`module provides a powerful[_Expression Language_](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M4/spring-framework-reference/htmlsingle/#expressions)for querying and manipulating an object graph at runtime. It is an extension of the unified expression language \(unified EL\) as specified in the JSP 2.1 specification. The language supports setting and getting property values, property assignment, method invocation, accessing the content of arrays, collections and indexers, logical and arithmetic operators, named variables, and retrieval of objects by name from Spring’s IoC container. It also supports list projection and selection as well as common list aggregations.

### 2.2.1 Core Container 核心容器

核心容器由 `spring-core`、 `spring-beans`、 `spring-context`、 `spring-context-support`、 `spring-expression`（Spring 表达式语言）模块组成。

`spring-core` 和 `spring-beans` 提供了 Spring 框架的基本功能，包括 IoC 和依赖注入功能。其主要组件是 `BeanFactory`，它是一个复杂的工厂模式的实现，`BeanFactory` 可以以单例模式创建对象，开发者不必亲自编码实现对象的单例模式，`BeanFactory` 利用 IoC 将依赖关系的配置和规范从程序代码分离。