### 3.4.5 Autowiring collaborators

The Spring container can_autowire_relationships between collaborating beans. You can allow Spring to resolve collaborators \(other beans\) automatically for your bean by inspecting the contents of the`ApplicationContext`. Autowiring has the following advantages:

* Autowiring can significantly reduce the need to specify properties or constructor arguments. \(Other mechanisms such as a bean template
  [discussed elsewhere in this chapter](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M4/spring-framework-reference/htmlsingle/#beans-child-bean-definitions)
  are also valuable in this regard.\)
* Autowiring can update a configuration as your objects evolve. For example, if you need to add a dependency to a class, that dependency can be satisfied automatically without you needing to modify the configuration. Thus autowiring can be especially useful during development, without negating the option of switching to explicit wiring when the code base becomes more stable.

When using XML-based configuration metadata[\[2\]](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M4/spring-framework-reference/htmlsingle/#ftn.d5e1508), you specify autowire mode for a bean definition with the`autowire`attribute of the`<bean/>`element. The autowiring functionality has four modes. You specify autowiring_per_bean and thus can choose which ones to autowire.

**Table 3.2. Autowiring modes**

| Mode | Explanation |
| :--- | :--- |
| no | \(Default\) No autowiring. Bean references must be defined via a`ref`element. Changing the default setting is not recommended for larger deployments, because specifying collaborators explicitly gives greater control and clarity. To some extent, it documents the structure of a system. |
| byName | Autowiring by property name. Spring looks for a bean with the same name as the property that needs to be autowired. For example, if a bean definition is set to autowire by name, and it contains a_master_property \(that is, it has a_setMaster\(..\)_method\), Spring looks for a bean definition named`master`, and uses it to set the property. |
| byType | Allows a property to be autowired if exactly one bean of the property type exists in the container. If more than one exists, a fatal exception is thrown, which indicates that you may not use_byType_autowiring for that bean. If there are no matching beans, nothing happens; the property is not set. |
| constructor | Analogous to_byType_, but applies to constructor arguments. If there is not exactly one bean of the constructor argument type in the container, a fatal error is raised. |

With_byType_or_constructor_autowiring mode, you can wire arrays and typed-collections. In such cases_all_autowire candidates within the container that match the expected type are provided to satisfy the dependency. You can autowire strongly-typed Maps if the expected key type is`String`. An autowired Maps values will consist of all bean instances that match the expected type, and the Maps keys will contain the corresponding bean names.

You can combine autowire behavior with dependency checking, which is performed after autowiring completes.

#### Limitations and disadvantages of autowiring

Autowiring works best when it is used consistently across a project. If autowiring is not used in general, it might be confusing to developers to use it to wire only one or two bean definitions.

Consider the limitations and disadvantages of autowiring:

* Explicit dependencies in `property` and `constructor-arg` settings always override autowiring. You cannot autowire so-called _simple_ properties such as primitives, `Strings`, and `Classes` \(and arrays of such simple properties\). This limitation is by-design.
* Autowiring is less exact than explicit wiring. Although, as noted in the above table, Spring is careful to avoid guessing in case of ambiguity that might have unexpected results, the relationships between your Spring-managed objects are no longer documented explicitly.
* Wiring information may not be available to tools that may generate documentation from a Spring container.
* Multiple bean definitions within the container may match the type specified by the setter method or constructor argument to be autowired. For arrays, collections, or Maps, this is not necessarily a problem. However for dependencies that expect a single value, this ambiguity is not arbitrarily resolved. If no unique bean definition is available, an exception is thrown.

In the latter scenario, you have several options:

* Abandon autowiring in favor of explicit wiring.
* Avoid autowiring for a bean definition by setting its `autowire-candidate` attributes to `false` as described in the next section.
* Designate a single bean definition as the _primary_ candidate by setting the `primary` attribute of its `<bean/>` element to `true`.
* Implement the more fine-grained control available with annotation-based configuration, as described in [Section 3.9, “Annotation-based container configuration”](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M4/spring-framework-reference/htmlsingle/#beans-annotation-config).

#### Excluding a bean from autowiring

On a per-bean basis, you can exclude a bean from autowiring. In Spring’s XML format, set the`autowire-candidate`attribute of the`<bean/>`element to`false`; the container makes that specific bean definition unavailable to the autowiring infrastructure \(including annotation style configurations such as[`@Autowired`](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M4/spring-framework-reference/htmlsingle/#beans-autowired-annotation)\).

The `autowire-candidate` attribute is designed to only affect type-based autowiring. It does not affect explicit references by name, which will get resolved even if the specified bean is not marked as an autowire candidate. As a consequence, autowiring by name will nevertheless inject a bean if the name matches.

You can also limit autowire candidates based on pattern-matching against bean names. The top-level`<beans/>`element accepts one or more patterns within its`default-autowire-candidates`attribute. For example, to limit autowire candidate status to any bean whose name ends with_Repository,_provide a value of \*Repository. To provide multiple patterns, define them in a comma-separated list. An explicit value of`true`or`false`for a bean definitions`autowire-candidate`attribute always takes precedence, and for such beans, the pattern matching rules do not apply.

These techniques are useful for beans that you never want to be injected into other beans by autowiring. It does not mean that an excluded bean cannot itself be configured using autowiring. Rather, the bean itself is not a candidate for autowiring other beans.

